Now, that we've learned about how Kafka actually works and how it's architected,
let's look around the workspace to see Kafka in action.
So we're going to pull up this workspace.
I've already pulled up Sample1.markdown.
So similar to how we did this in the first exercise that we did in the last lesson,
we're going to actually walk through some of the command line tools for Kafka.
So I'm going to go over here and I'm going to bring up a terminal window.
I'm going to resize it to take up half the screen.
The first thing we're going to do is create another topic.
So we've already seen how to do this.
For your Kafka-topics --create --topic Kafka-arch.
We're going to use this as an abbreviation for architecture.
Again, we're going to have one partition,
and a replication factor of one.
Again, we have replication factor of one,
because we're only running one Kafka broker.
We're going to specify Zookeeper as Localhost: 2181.
So now, we've created a topic called Kafka architecture.
The next thing we're going to do is actually inspect what was created.
So we're going to list the files in this directory.
So in the slides we talked about var/lib/kafka/data.
Let's see what's in there. I'm actually going to make the screen
full screen so we can see more stuff on the screen at once.
So let's go ahead and run that command.
There's quite a bit of stuff in this directory.
This is the Kafka data directory, just to reiterate.
We have private Kafka internal topics, Kafka offsets,
and then all the way at the bottom here we have one folder Kafka arch 0.
This is our topic. What's inside of that folder?
Well, let's take a look var/lib/kafka/data Kafka-arch-0.
We have an index, a log,
a time index, and an epoch checkpoint.
We don't need to really worry about the details of
any of the files other than just the log file.
Let's take a look at what it might look like.
So I'm just going to use vim to open this file up.
You can see there's nothing in it,
because we haven't published any messages to this topic. Quit out of that.
Now, you may be wondering, why is there only one folder for
Kafka arch 0 but there are so many folders for some of these other topics?
Well, each one of these folders actually represents a partition.
Remember when we created the topic,
we only specified one partition.
So let's go back to our document and take a look at what we're going to do next.
So we're going to leave single document mode,
and I'm going to come over here,
rush in to produce some data into this topic.
So let's go ahead and give that a shot.
I'm just going to copy this command since we've already seen how to run it.
But basically we're just going to run the Kafka-console-producer against
the Kafka-arch-topic with the localhost: 9092 Kafka broker.
We're just going to produce in some data.
We'll say, hello world! again. Kafka architecture test.
Then we're going to Control C to exit.
Then we're going to take a look at what's in that data directory one more time.
So I'm just going to head up.
We're going to look at var/lib/Kafka.
Kafka arch 0 log.
You'll see there's now some data in this topic.
Well, this isn't necessarily used for human consumption.
This isn't meant for you to be able to read,
but I just want to show you where the data is getting stored.
So if you're looking at this and thinking,
this data looks crazy, that's okay.
This is Kafka's binary representation.
It's not meant for you to interpret as a human being.
But it is nice to know where the data is being put.
So we can quit out of this,
and next we're going to repartition the topic.
So we're going to run a new command that you haven't seen before.
This is the Alter command.
So we're going to alter our topic to have three partitions instead of just one.
So we're going to run the Kafka-topics--alter,
specify the topic we want to alter.
Then we're going to say that we want to have three partitions.
It's a list of 10, 100,
300, whatever number you care to choose, you can.
But we're just going to set it to three for now.
We're going to set Zookeeper equal to Localhost: 2181 as we always do. So it's going run.
Takes just a moment, and you'll see that now if we go back,
we're just going to clear this and make this full screen again.
We're going to go to single document mode.
If we do an ls on var/lib/kafka/data,
and I'm actually just going to grab so it filters out just our Kafka-arch-topics.
Let's see what we find. We now have three folders here: 0, 1, and two.
That's because we now have three partitions.
So you can actually see under the hood,
how Kafka is managing partitions.
We can actually just think of as a topic
almost as simple abstraction over the actual partitions on disk.
So let's go back to our file here.
Now that we've seen that, if we continue to produce data,
let's do that one more time.
We're going to go ahead and run our producer command again,
because it's going to produce a few more messages, 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, and so on.
Doesn't really matter what you put messages we produced, and we're going to quit out.
Let's take a look at a couple of those other topics that we have.
A couple of other partition data files.
So let's take a look here.
So we're looking at Kafka arch-0.
So there's still data here,
and you can see there's some new data in this file.
But what happens if I look at Kafka arch one or two? Let's look at one.
Now, we have data here as well,
and we also have data in Kafka arh-2.
So well, it may not be necessary for you to ever actually dig in on
your own production workloads and actually see how
the underlying data is stored on disk by Kafka.
It's a useful exercise for you to just
understand how Kafka is working in storing the files.
Especially given the fact that understanding how Kafka's stores these files,
may help you better understand how to actually optimize
Kafka's disk usage and other types of performance metrics later on.